to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which it
stands one nation under God indivisible
with liberty and justice for all
right
I need an approval I need a motion to
approve the agenda I'll make a motion to
approve the agenda okay
a vice chair ground seconds
all those in favor say aye aye
aye
the agenda's approved
next is celebrations and delegations
celebrations
retired this year a lot of sage and Bob
selling and they both have been with our
district for many years so it's a
celebration for them they've had very
successful careers and
served a lot of children in our district
thank you
good
okay uh any discussion items
Ford Focus
Ed read if I may be a new
newsletter
because there's I'm sure some folks that
didn't see it on the websites here use
your microphone speak up please thank
you
okay I'm going to read
what uh the chairman had put on the
Facebook page I believe it's a Snapchat
page and a Twitter page today
um this is going to be a Weekly
Newsletter that goes out from the board
so it's currently going to be called the
Spartan news updates from the West
Bonner County School Board it's did you
know congratulations to the 44
of the 2023 lamanna high students that
graduated this year
congratulations to the following West
Bonner County Employees on their
retirement and thank you for your years
years of service to the community both
of the ones that Susie just mentioned uh
moment Mona and Bob
um and first and foremost the board
would like to dispel the rumors of the
voted on budget for the school year 2023
and 2024. the board has not made any
cuts to programs or to staff at this
point the board gave direction to the
interim superintendent to give
suggestions on where there could be Cuts
made should it be necessary for the
board to consider when the board has a
final budget vote the interim
superintendent met with the principals
and the directors and may compiled a
list of eight positions to eliminate in
addition to that the superintendent
principal and directors came up with a
list of what they saw was necessary for
the school district this list comprised
of the following in the order they were
deemed important the staff
Transportation Security and Facilities
again please understand that the board
has not made any final this excuse me
decisions on this list for the eight
positions the board has not made a vote
to cancel sports or music the board has
not made a vote to remove Quantum
learning the board has not made a vote
to close Priest Lake Elementary School
the board does understand that in the
last 12 months the West Bonner County
school district has gone through some
very challenging times there's three new
board members one long-term
superintendent moved away
he retired out but then I believe he got
a job like right away after that
um a new short-term superintendent
resigned one interim superintendent a
new superintendent that to begin on June
26th
we have moved from a parent's opt-in
policy instead of opt out we removed the
SEL Ela curriculum we have increased the
GPA requirements we moved to a four-day
school work week we have introduced
Quantum learning and we have a strong
five year strategic plan for the
district
as in the case in any town There's
incorrect information being shared and
the board wants the community to know
that we do hear your concerns regarding
Sports please understand that the board
has never stated that sports are not a
value-added component to our schools the
confusion and misinformation is not
helpful and the board asks that you
please rely on the weekly update
newsletters that will only come from the
board this information is accurate
sincerely the west or Bonner County
Board chip
I have a question on that because you
said it was Twitter and Snapchat and I'm
unfamiliar with that so
um if you could
teach me how I how I can get that letter
here's how are you doing that well it's
on it's on it goes on multiple platforms
Facebook is going on the
um the
West Broward County School District
website Twitter uh Instagram any of the
social medias this is going to go out
once a week
but I did that on Apple no she's like no
I did so yeah
so my question is I didn't see it the
board as a whole didn't approve it I am
concerned about it going out without the
board taking a look at it because one of
my comments would be on the you know
stating that we we have increased the
GPA requirements I agree that we have
but we had actually it continued
increasing we've done it a couple of
times so I didn't see it until I got
until you read that one and I got this
one so I think it needs to some way be
circulated to the board before it goes
out and be as posted so we can comment
to make sure that we're in agreement
because I didn't sign my name to it on
it
as the board chairman as an elected
official
this is just a communication and I
appreciate
but the title is under West Bonner
County School District board and I got
it I saw it on Facebook for the first
time and I don't disagree with what's on
there but we have to work as a board we
need to work as a board
and we can't have
small groups within the board working
together
so and I I appreciate the intent of
trying to communicate and I don't
disagree with that I just need to have
communicate with us first I'm sorry
maybe that would be helpful okay okay
um
I have a board report
um oh go ahead
of the Twitter
District yes sites on Twitter this went
through
um okay thank you
is it Snapchat
um
I believe we have Instagram I didn't
know we had Snapchat
yeah so whatever our district cites yes
yes okay yeah because I think it's
listed actually yeah it is but you're
right I think there's only two or three
okay
okay so in the future
it won't be listed
board comments will be listed as an
individuals
so you're still not going to share it
with your whole board well no it's
and we're all electric officials we all
not when you're not when you're saying
it's the board right that's what I said
I
so so when the phrases that we
Keith I would suggest that um I mean I'm
not against trying to have better
Communications we've talked about that
so maybe we can figure out a way I mean
if if you're going to put it out again
it just would be nice to see it before
it went out
um as a board as a board member that
would be
suggestions agenda as a caption item and
the board discusses it and actually
needs action to put you in that position
okay
okay all right
um any other comments
um I have a board report there was a
question about
isba and I did some research on it our
upcoming invoice for this year is
4538 and 32 cents our policy updates are
695 dollars we do get a dividend
um that our last dividend in 2022 was
2001.94
and it was at it may or not may not be
quite as much as this coming year
because of the Pocatello High School
fire
but we went up a little higher because
we had over a thousand if we go under a
thousand or fee will go down
um the Paul somebody made the statement
that the policies can be exit they can
be right now accessible membership or
non-membership it's a mistake isba is
closing that down that loophole so that
the policies are only through
um going to be for those members of isba
the other thing is I reached out to Lake
Ponderay to find out I had heard after I
talked to the board chair over there
that they had a conversation between one
of the trustees the board Clerk and the
businessman or the CFO over there they
they did reach out to another attorney
um down in somebody was suggesting an
attorney down in Boise who might be able
to help and they got a quote and they
shared it with me
it said we would need to adopt her
complete set at a cost of forty five
hundred dollars we would also need to
purchase her annual policy update
service which we could receive quarterly
updates at a cost of twenty six hundred
dollars we could order individual
policies for 150 to 600 each if we
wanted that is not included in her time
if we have policy questions we are
billed at our hourly weight of a hundred
and ninety dollars that um the statement
that was made from both the board clerk
over there and the chair
is that that the value per dollar that
iSpa offers over and above what we
actually pay for is is hard to quantify
they actually are accessible to be able
to be reached they also in terms of they
reached out to their
Insurance Company
and basically the risk to
um
in terms of risk management the feeling
was that isba was well worth it in terms
of risk management and that and the
value per dollar so I wanted to give you
that update I did do the research after
somebody made that comment and there's a
lot of benefits to it we don't have to
take everything they say in the policies
we can you know craft them ourselves
um we can we can edit them we don't have
to take them pervade them but they do
get funneled through their secure their
attorneys and they get looked at very
closely so that's my report on that
okay
um
events and Revelations of the last few
days have underscored the need for all
of us to serve our community with good
faith effort and represent the diversity
of opinion and our districts
and the opinion is most certainly not
one-sided as a reminder this board has
been elected to represent a total of
almost 13 000 residents living
in about 5 300 different households
including not quite 1100 students from
some somewhere between 10 and 20 percent
of those households
we remain grateful
that our community of Thirteen thousand
District residents has taken up its
constitutional responsibility to provide
for the education of 1100 of our younger
residents
we must also remain responsible to
Judiciary trust which
if we the administrators of this school
district are honest with ourselves we
must admit that the district was not
fully lived up has has not fully lived
up to the trust that the entire
Community has placed in it and we must
do better do a better job of building
that trust
using better and divisive rhetoric to
degenerate
as uncaring
comparing those who may find fault in
the past performance of the district and
those who call for more accountability
and better performance does not help
build that trust with the 13 000
residents who surrender their
hard-earned productivity to this tax
industry we must do better do better
than that
we must focus on proving our
professionalism improving our
transparency and most importantly
improving our results
in the tasks in which we are
constitutionally bound namely to provide
for the stability and of the Republican
form of government by maintaining a free
public common schools
I have dedicated my personal time and
energy to that task and I invite the
members of this board the administration
of the district and our teachers and
staff to hold that task
I just want to say thank you for your
dedication and focus
our constitutional Duty
okay next up is uh principal reports
hi I'm Lynn Parker I'm the principal at
Priest River Elementary School and so
this is my June report and it's
basically just a little bit about the
end of the school year so I'm just
stating that we did complete all of our
assessments and we met the requirements
of the percentage of people taking the
assessment all of our students did
improve though at Priest River
Elementary School we did not quite make
our math goal even though that was my
focus for this school year we did make
our writing goal though
um so one of the thing another thing
that I did work on as a goal of mine
mine was improving attendance and so we
did some really great things with
attendance this year we had 96 students
attend the first quarter attendance
party that had perfect attendance for
the whole first quarter we had second
quarter we had
um
90 students no I think it was 85 it went
down
um went to the Roxy and then we had 96
for third quarter that went to the
camera Center and went swimming and then
this last quarter we walked 106 students
down to the park and had pizza and root
beer floats and I want to thank our
police officers for escorting us down
there
um it was a lot of kids to get there and
all the parent volunteers that helped me
and the staff they helped me it was a
great event another thing that we were
doing to to raise awareness of
attendance was classroom Awards and so
miss glazier's sixth grade class had 55
days of perfect attendance in her class
our second places were Miss riddles
third grade and Miss Kerry's fourth
grade with 46 days and then Miss
Nelson's first grade class had 43 days
so they did a great job of trying to get
there every day
um things we had so many things happen
at the end of the year I have some
things listed here we had the fifth and
sixth grade track meet and we had
um an amazing amount of parents support
that
um our K we had two Field Days K3 and
four Sixth and again parent volunteers
are amazing we couldn't do the amazing
things without you so thank you
um and we had our kindergarten and first
grade teachers set up dress up and
activity days to try to improve
attendance for their school for their
classes and they did color days and
dress-up days and a whole bunch of
things one of the neat things that's
happening right now is there's four
teachers from my school that are
attending
um an i stem training in at Nic and in
fact I drove up here straight up from my
training
and so we have Miss Nelson Miss Wendell
Rachel Davis our Arts steam room teacher
and myself and what's cool is it cost us
only fifty dollars to take the training
but we're bringing back
twelve hundred dollars worth of supplies
that we're going to get to use with our
students so we're really excited about
that we had Personnel I have a lot of
people resigning right now
um but I do want to congratulate Kathy
Cordes she was a custodian in our school
for many years and she's amazing and she
left in May and Mona Sage our second
grade teacher which we're really going
to miss her too so
um but I have several resignations and I
just got another text just about when I
was standing out in line to come in so
we have Emily McCoy kindergarten Tracy
Markley third grade Barbara McLean
fourth grade Rachel Reid fifth and sixth
grade combo Krista tormann and our
resource teacher and Andrea Ashley my
sixth grade math teacher is now leaving
so
um that's gonna be a detriment to my
school
some cool things that we did have though
I have pictures for the board we had our
banana visit and our kids just
absolutely loved having that I have our
track meet pictures of that our
attendance award walking down and then
you can see the events and the kids in
the park I want to also
thank our EMS people for having two
field trips for our students we had our
kindergarten go and our second grade and
that was amazing and another neat thing
that our kids did was
um Miss riddle right before Memorial Day
walked her class to the cemetery behind
our school oh sorry and
um they got to put flags on Veterans
Graves so that was another neat thing
our kids got to do so that was the end
of the school year at Priest River
Elementary School
thank you
so I'll just do it later okay
next up is the Thomas from the audience
um you just want to remind people speak
to the chair no personal attacks people
cordial yes
thanks
okay uh first up is Paul Turco
hello my name is Paul Turco and first
I'd like to applaud and congratulate
Susie lucky trustee Hall trustee Barton
and Miss Stephie baby
you have shown immense courage and you
eat your incredible positive assets to
our district and community
thank you
I would like to officially request that
trustee Brown trustee Reinbold and
trustee Rutledge add their names to the
list of resignations you've lost the
faith of the community
you are the cause of the public
discourse and you've cost the district
time and money
never has ignorance been an acceptable
defense and it will not be accepted here
lastly I'd also like to publicly
volunteer for the zone two seats
thank you
next up Messi Hill
I am here to
talk a little bit about the budget and
our new possible superintendent I am
puzzled disheartened and frankly
disgusted by the actions of chair
Rutledge Vice chair Brown and trustee
Reinbold they're refusing to acknowledge
overwhelming community support for Susie
lucky as the right to host as a
qualified superintendent of West Bonner
County Mrs lucky has been serving our
district for decades and has the respect
and admiration of our community and our
children instead chair Rutledge Vice
chair Brown and trustee reimble are
supporting an unqualified and very much
not community supported candidate as a
superintendent
because this candidate does not have the
qualifications to be a superintendent
his salary and benefits which in the
original ask were outrageous will be
coming out of the district's General
budget this budget is in crisis already
now you are choosing to put the district
into an even more dangerous fiscal
position with your support of Mr Durst
the board is illegally disregarding
their fiduciary responsibility to
District funds and not representing the
interests of our community By ignoring
the community's outcry of support for
Mrs lucky
next up Whitney Hutchins
my name is Whitney Hutchins
things I don't understand
a district in a financial crisis in
which the board decides pardon me three
board members decide against Community
wishes too
a hire a superintendent who is not
qualified with a ridiculous salary and B
consider outside counsel which seems to
me would be much more expensive than the
council that the district provides
I would also hope that when you look at
that resignation list in front of you
you realize those resignations are due
to three of the board members completely
disregarding the best interests of our
kids teachers and community
I would also like to publicly thank
trustee Hall trustee Barton board clerk
Steffy Pavey and interim superintendent
Mrs lucky for their continued support of
the community
next up Kathleen
else
I can't read your last name
hi I'm Katie elsessor I'm a parent of
current students here in our district as
well as a graduate from here and aside
from attending college and law school
I've lived in Priest River my entire
life
education and politics don't mix it's
not how it's supposed to be yes we are a
very conservative town but it's not
about politics it's about education and
all walks of life
we're facing a large budget shortfall we
all know that that means cuts are being
made we're already seeing that we don't
know what your final budget will be but
you know there'll be Cuts made
I'm an attorney I know how much money we
charge people so going outside of what
you already have for legal counsel
when we already have a budget shortfall
makes absolutely no sense
um in such a financial it's it's on
sound to hire a superintendent who we
likely will have to pay out a general
fund if he doesn't get his waiver we
have someone that proves that she can
get the waiver but there's other
candidates if that's not the case but
going forward with someone who will
likely cost our general fund which means
any funds that could be for any
co-curriculars might be at risk
hiring outside counsel is a reckless
disregard to the financial State and I
don't need a friends that got it to know
that
um
in the words of the person that three of
you think is qualified for our school
district Brandon Durst I trust parents
and I'm a defender of parents and we
need to put parents back in the driver's
seat of our children's education these
are the parents they've spoken loudly
not community members they are parents
and the parents are saying no so please
do not misuse funds by hiring outside
Council to try and push through an
unqualified candidate I'm asking you to
use financial responsibility
additionally the community wants to be
involved Embrace that and let the junior
high be used or the high school because
the community wants to be involved and
the more you shut people down the
further the anger and frustration will
build people need a voice and they need
to be able to be participants you need
to encourage that thank you for your
time
foreign
next up is Maureen Patterson
heavenly father thank you so much for
all the gifts you give to us in
particular this beautiful rain that
you've been sending please open our
minds and our hearts
to your holy will and bless this meeting
in Jesus Christ's name we pray
publicly I want to thank trustee
Rutledge trustee Brown and trustee
Reinbold
for standing up for accountability and
transparency
I put down the bills for my specific
topic so the two that I'm questioning
are
questioning in the fact that I I'd like
to know more about them delaying Landon
Public Finance 827 dollars and and nine
cents it says principal payment and
interest so I'm just curious about it
number two Riverside insights Esser
three funds being used for learning loss
LMS supplies three thousand three
thank you very much
okay next up Sandra Brower
hi my name is Sandra Bauer and um
first thing on the agenda I want to talk
about is the resignations of 16
employees and zero hires that's very
concerning and I think that's a really
loud message to the board you have a
responsibility to govern this district
and um it's just not going in the right
direction I would also like to reiterate
what I said earlier I think that I'd
like to know what what meeting that you
guys put on the agenda for you to write
a letter
um so I really strongly encourage you to
put that on the agenda actually take
action on that policy 3283 about uh I
think that's the sexual gender policy
that you guys are looking at I'm kind of
curious what Idaho code you're referring
to when you have that agenda and also
you say in there that it's up to the
building or the um District
administrator I'd like to know what that
means is that the building administrator
or District because the superintendent
you guys just hired is publicly put out
on social media has discussed for
transgender people so I'm very concerned
with how that superintendent is going to
keep our transgender Kids Safe
um outside counsel for contract
negotiation what's good for the goose is
good for the gander so if we're paying
for outside counsel so can they so now
you've got two attorneys doing the
bidding when we have no money
um forensic audit this has been a scare
tactic used by this board and by members
of our community you guys have been in
in charge for almost two years do it
already
um
I really would strongly also encourage
you guys to move the meetings you guys
have done what I could not do for 10
years you've got people involved in
people here
um so praise God for that maybe Brandon
does to that I don't know I don't care
that people are involved so please make
your meetings your public meetings where
public can attend so I really want to
strongly encourage you change the site
and do it at the junior high or the high
school
um oh darn thank you
um
I need a motion uh to consent agenda
I'll make a motion to prove the consent
agenda
but then I have a comment afterwards
yes regarding the June 14th meeting I
feel that there was a um definite open
meeting violation since three of the
board members had a script that two of
us could not see and that um to amend
the agenda we are two board members can
bring an item to um to the agenda but I
feel that what was done at on the June
14th meeting was in violation of open
meeting because I believe that trustee
Barton actually asked to see or what was
the item that you were looking at and
she was denied access to it so I'm going
on the record that that was in my mind
in open meeting violation and I am
actually following up with that with on
the County prosecutor
okay
I have a quick question
um there are a couple people messaging
me that say that they are blocked from
posting on the district's Facebook the
live stream
is that correct and just a few people
it should be everyone so they're saying
it's just a couple of people just so you
know it took me a few minutes to figure
out how to do the block okay okay so a
few people okay thank you
okay
and then there are some questions
regarding the bills I think that
actually this would be under the
questions that um Ms Patterson asked
that Maureen asked about the bills and
then I had one or two
um quickly so I would follow up with um
Steffi I think there was one for 827 and
then one for three thousand
documentation
she also had a question about the
finance charge and then isda
comments saying uh should it be
suspended until the board decides that
can be decided at any point in time by
the board
um but until it's decided by the board
here
oh thank you so much
and I'm more than happy to provide
documentation for any of the questions
um if you could just email me the
question prior to the board meeting so
that I can gather that information those
documents
and seeing with the public if there's a
question regarding the bill or a
financial report please just let me know
what to me
okay I may look at the ones that Susan
trustee Vice chair Brown has that it
might be the same question so I mean she
may be asking the same
which one were you looking for
um the communications for 62
Capital expenditures
evaco sound and electronic
yes I had a Riverside and then the
Scotsman that that is the one that's
just for the
um
for sports equipment correct
it is
cold water
the the portable what was the portable
it's for special services yes
what position it was for I think the
School site okay using educational
support and helps with and not yet
affordable I know that
thank you are you talking about the
little one by the high school yeah yeah
yes because I just saw it as a portable
and I I just wanted to verify what that
portable was supposed for yeah
and given what I found out for isba and
that having done the research I would
not
um I would say that that they offer us a
service that's well worth their well
worth it for us
and then the financial
um Linden Public Financial what is that
a bill for
so I believe that the bill that has been
provided the dollar amount
but I
had our accounts payable payroll
specialist
foreign
and then Riverside insights
this was for
oh this is for these are for our coffee
or something this one is that one is
okay
I just I knew that it was mentioned but
it was um it went Minolta Manola right
so I'm pretty sure this is what copiers
at the different
um the 827 it looks like it's where the
copiers at the different sites yeah
that's that's what that is
ideas
so Riverside insights provided
this looks like
easy CBM extension
120 of them
yes those are
um those are site license for students
when we use our assessment tool the
Riverside Insight is the name it's
called eccbm
so that's the cost per child when we do
those assessments
yes
did you want to see that no that's okay
and then
I don't see Faith Hughes as an employee
but we paid her
looks like for travel Quantum learning
yeah
sure thank you
no problem
foreign
[Music]
this has your signature on it
what is which one is
The copier if it's a copier there would
have been no this is a bill that just
got
paid last month
thank you
I'll take a look it looks like your
signature Ninja
so I would just
um
I would like to make a motion that we
hold off on the one for the isba until
the boards had an opportunity to talk
more again
where we want to go
all right
okay and
I guess I would say what date and time
certain on that other on the isba one
because um think there is value to it I
can provide you with the information
that I received from Lake Ponderay and I
can pass that on
okay all those in favor of
um approving the consent agenda as
amended for PCI
all right all right
okay consent agenda
they just I just
um
yeah sorry thank you
yeah okay
those are samples of making the
consent agenda to wait on isba please
say aye
aye
I think do we need emotion in a second
sorry oh I think we need a motion in a
second to do it
um I would what I would do is pull out
the isba billing up that one for the
bill and and I'll make a motion to
approve the consent agenda with with the
comment that I made on June 14th and the
other bills and I will withhold for
separate motion the isba bill
okay so the motion on the table is to
accept the consent agenda without isga
is that correct yes okay
okay do I have a second yeah
next a motion to consent agenda minus
the isba uh Vice chair Brown second set
all in favor say aye all right
to consider Virginia
um
okay it'll go off here in a minute thank
you but we appreciate it sorry yeah
technical difficulties thank you okay
um next up I need a motion to um
bring secondary policies to the table
I'm using the second reading of do you
want all the policies listed or just
we'll go well
um just bring them to the table and
we'll discuss them one by one I think
I'm watching bringing the second freeing
of the policies okay uh if I share Brown
makes a motion to bring the second read
of the policies to the table do I hear I
have a second
trusty rainbow seconds
discussion on policy 3283 biological sex
yes I I have been doing some more
research and though I know you don't
want to hear isba isba actually has two
policies that they put out that I'm
going to pass down to you this policy
3283 actually is um delving into two
chapters it delves into three our 3000
Series student and our facility series
9000 what I'm handing you
is um
what I'm handing you is the combination
of there is one that is goat falls under
the students three thousand would be
3281 and the other one is having to do
with the facilities
um 90 and in the 9000 it would be 9605
when I'm what I am looking at is that
these have actually been reviewed by
attorneys I don't I don't feel that our
current
board policy on biological sex you
haven't has the answer to who the
attorney is that has reviewed that has
been not satisfactorily reached
um I'm not satisfied with the answer
that I've gotten because I've gotten no
answer and I suggest that we look at
these um these as an alternative where
we would have a gender identity and
sexual orientation under students and
then the second part would be facility
separated by sex and we could be as a
board these are generated from isba and
their spring policy as I said they were
going to be and there were two of them
and they actually have the um the Idaho
Co the federal code laws on the policies
they are actually citing those whereas
the other one is more of a Layman's
legal document it's not I mean it's a
Layman's document not a legal document
in my mind
so I would make a recommendation that we
table the board policy on biological sex
review these 3281 9605 as I said one's
facilities one is student and review
them in Light review the other one in
light of these which actually have had
are much more of a legal document that
we can fall back on if there's a legal
challenge
just enough
yes
and I let's see do all and Sue's um that
um no wait a minute I've got Maureen
I've got a two of them let's see there's
that
I like the video
does everyone have one and then here's
one more like that actually
on the table is the table
um
policy 9605
until a comparison is done between
policy 9605 and isba policy 3281 is that
correct
um 3281 and um the 90 they go together
then 3281 and then the 96 whatever what
is the other number
um 9605
so because one's facilities and in our
the 3283 actually combines both they
deal with facilities and student issues
and they could mix and match rather than
separating these two policies separate
them into 3281 into 96.
um into the other one and then we can
again we you know these are Frameworks I
feel more comfortable with these as a
legal document as our policy we can
change them we can edit them you know we
can do the editing but the framework is
a better sound starting point
do I have a grab a second I'll second
that okay trustee Barton seconds all
those in favor of tabling 9605
signified by saying aye
aye
um
I guess I'm confused why we are
oh okay yeah absolutely look at it okay
okay so the motion carries is that
correct we have the four eyes
okay okay that's tabled and some of the
comparison next up is policy
7400 decrease
I will make a motion to bring
um policy 74
7400 P3 requirement restrictions for
procurement under a federal award
competition I guess we've already
brought it to the table
um I do have some discussion points on
it
um I know that um it was there was a
question regarding from what um from Ann
Chamberlain
regarding the paragraph that starts with
additional towards the bottom it says
the additional District
um
shall require a school meal program
suppliers to attest at their final food
products are either 100 percent domestic
Commodities or a food product containing
over 51 percent domestic food components
by weight or volume
that is confusing and and it goes down
further I think this policy actually
uses food
the food or food product where the the
food should be agricultural commodity or
food product I think what they're
looking at is looking at the commodity
or food product
um
I don't know I know what
um Miss well Chamberlain was talking
about I just don't know if there's a
reason we have to keep that language in
for
um
for the program the food program that um
for the food program I'm not sure about
that
but I just I think if we kept it in I
would change commodity 100 domestic
agricultural Commodities or food
products and then in the exceptions I
would say instead of the food or food
products say the agricultural commodity
or food product is not produced or
manufactured in the United States and
then in number two where it again says
just food I would say agricultural
commodity or food product food is very
food or food product is confusing in my
mind
all those in favor of
um accepting policy 7400 C3 with
Margie's edits please say hi hi
a policy of
33.40p corrective actions and punishment
for students with disabilities
okay so I'll back up and make a motion
for policy 7400p to approve with those
changes that I suggest it's
um changing food to agricultural
commodity okay
last year Brown seconds all over the
favor please say aye
aye okay 7400
P3 with modifications are adopted thank
you
are we going to
going we already did
yeah
um
I'll make a motion for policy 3340p
corrective actions and punishment for
students with disabilities and I think
the only change on this one was we were
going to under five
um use the first work Miss During the
period of suspension cannot be made made
up for consideration for grading if I
remember correctly and so I think it's
the only change
that was the first one and then
the title of this is corrective actions
and punishments and we need to take off
for students with disabilities because
it's it's the procedures for all
corrective actions and punishments and
the policy does include students with
disabilities but it's also for all
students okay so the title we just
forgot okay perfect
that part let's get started all right do
I have a motion to accept policy 33 40K
corrective actions and punishments for
students with disabilities
yeah
corrective action
s right oh I'm sorry yeah I'm sorry I
make a motion to approve policy 3340p
corrective actions and punishments
okay I have a motion from Vice chair
Brown to accept policy 3343 for active
actions and punishments for students
with disabilities last second
um
I'll I'll second it with the amendment
that we changed the title and that we
and we accept under five number the
first the first line
all those in favor say aye aye
action and punishments for students
from there thank you
okay next policy 3265 student-owned
electronic communication devices
I'll make a motion to bring policy 3265
to known electronic communication
devices to the table okay last year
brown mix of motion for policy 3265
student owned electronic communication
devices to the tables
a second discussion
um I'm trying to see if if I didn't
were there any changes on this I was not
finding any
okay all right so let me see which I
think it was just there somewhere to the
more devices
okay
[Music]
yeah
when you change when you want the policy
otherwise listed in this past okay okay
so I'll make a motion you brought it to
the table but I'll make a motion to
approve 32.65
student-owned electronic communications
devices
3265 student loan electronic
communication devices
uh next action items
I need a motion for
consideration and approval of bus
leasing policy and procedure guidelines
I'll make a motion to for consideration
and approval of bus leasing policy and
procedure guidelines
trustee Barton seconds
um I haven't seen anything on this so
there's I've not seen any document on
this one so
so I'm just I would like to read it I
would have liked to have read it
beforehand and depending how big it is I
might ask to be to table it
I haven't seen it either okay
um
I'll make a motion to table it until
when um I guess Steffy is there at times
certain that this has to be done
on the bus
can it be wait until our July meeting
can I table it okay I make a motion to
table it to our monthly July meeting
um
okay next is consideration and approval
of the 2023-2024
Child Nutrition price change
the motion bringing to the table I'll
make a motion to bring the consideration
approval of
2023-2024 Child Nutrition price change
to the table
is this a policy issue
services
thank you
um
okay did you bring it to the table
I made a motion too I don't know if
there was a second
for consideration and approval of 20
24 Child Nutrition price change five
seconds okay Professor Brown seconds
does US Steppy for um like to ask our
business manager for a description of it
or any background on it
you speak that please
so this was proposed by our food service
director Terry Johnson
and it's just a a change of meal pricing
okay
and Steppy is there anything
we don't have any do we have any wiggle
room on this stuffy at all
basically if we're providing food is
there I mean this is what um
is there any
anything that we can actually change on
this
at this point
that's what we're discussing right now
so Steffy is it
in all of these prices are reduced from
the 2022 to 2023 school year
I think so
um
it keeps dying okay
do
with Steppy
okay
could you just put students between you
and then okay
yeah is there what is the timeline on
this we need to get back to them with an
answer
it just has to go in our handbooks which
we're not going to turn into probably
August
days of the weekend things so
we just have to put them in our
handbooks
and these I think we should these are
actually
um the amounts that we're charging the
students
these are the amounts that we're
charging the students
correct
and the adults adults and students for
both um K through six and then seven
through twelve
is there would these go up I mean given
the budget
um part of this is through Federal money
this is federal money this nutrition
program so in some ways this is outs um
I guess what
what control do we have to
are these set by the federal nutrition
program
in some way I guess is that or or I mean
could we make these if the if our budget
we need a shortfall on our budget can we
conceivably raise these prices
okay
increases
if it needs a certain threshold
the process for that
okay so if we table this I would suggest
that we have specific things that are
brought back to us any specific
questions that we get answered and
that's what I'm trying to figure out
what are the you know what specific
questions do we want to have answered if
we're going to table this
okay
um
your suggestion
um I would suggest that we table this
okay so I have a motion is that a motion
I'll make a motion that we table this
until the July meeting Vice chair Brown
makes a motion to table this until July
meeting do I have a second
Rusty Rambo seconds all those in favor
of tabling this till next month please
say hi
hi
um I actually I know we already closed
down discussion but it would be helpful
um
I think would be helpful to know give
some direction or give some questions so
that it makes okay that you know if we
have some questions afterwards we should
figure out exactly what we want to know
okay
um next up I need a motion for
consideration and approval of paid lunch
equity
sorry
um
a consideration I need a motion for
consideration and approval of 2023 2024
School Bus bid
potion for consideration approval of the
2023-2024 school bus bid okay trustee
Brown makes a motion for consideration
approval of 2023 2024 School Bus bid do
I have a second
um
I want to would like to amend that I'll
make a motion to bring it to the table
but we'll be asking to table it
okay okay so there's a
motion or a second from
trustee Hall to bring the consideration
and approval of 2023 2024 School Bus bid
discussion
um I there was nothing online again and
I haven't seen anything so again I would
want to table it until the July meeting
so we can actually look at the bid
okay if there's a motion to table it do
I have a second
oh I'm sorry no that's okay
[Music]
select to be able to
essentially
all right
okay all those in favor of tabling
um consideration approval of 2023 2024
School Bus bid please say aye
aye those opposed okay it's table uh
consideration and approval of paid lunch
Equity I need a motion to bring it to
the table
I'll make a motion to bring to the table
consideration approval of paid lunch
equity
all Mexicans for consideration and
approve
approved a second
we'll ask it
we'll get it to the table yes
okay
trusty rainbow seconds bringing
consideration approval paid lunch Equity
to a table discussion so what is it yeah
need some explanation
that I had an attachment for it but I
don't but it is a tool for the food
service so an emerging tool
and our food service director provide
more information on that
um I make a motion and we table it until
we can
see that okay to the July meeting
there's a motion to con to table
consideration and approval of paid lunch
equity
also I can trusty rainbow seconds all
those in favor say aye
aye okay that motion has been tabled
next up is consideration and approval of
retaining outside counsel for contract
negotiation and audit consultation
do I have a motion to bring this to a
table I'll make a motion okay twisty
rainbow makes a motion to bring
consideration approval of retaining
outside counsel for contract negotiation
and audit consultation I second that
okay by sure uh seconds
comments
um I need more explanation on this and
who's the outside Council that we're
looking at and more details
Dr site Council would be
selected either depending on
um
what is for either either for um
we call it audit consultation would be
an RFQ process
retaining outside counsel for contract
negotiations is a also could be an RFQ
process but it also could fall under the
dollar amount not required for an RFQ
process
so what specifically what contract
obviously we know the audit but I know
that there's if we're looking at are we
looking at a forensic audit are we
looking at a regular audit there's I
don't know within with the outside
Council there's actually
Edie Bailey is a big firm that is an
audit firm in Spokane actually
regionally western region that does
forensic audits I don't know if we
really need do we need to pay for
outside accountant or outside attorney
to be paying to reach out to the
Auditors to
to put it together
this is uh uh Council for the board this
is just an approval go out and
look for either beds or retain
outside Council that falls under the RFQ
process that falls under the threshold
and it's been advised that the board
should have their own Council
separate from the district yes okay
what has been advised
a certain order so wait wait a sec um so
yeah I do want to just I need to sort of
further clarification on this is the
contract negotiations what
um I guess what contract negotiations
are we
looking at specifically I mean it's very
to me it's a little bit too vague to
understand I need
um
any contract or what kind of contract I
mean are we looking at the
superintendent contractor
so what other contracts would we be
looking at that would fall under this
one
um whatever whatever's needed
um current list right now is is the um
forensic audit possible printer got it
and
a superintendent contracts
so at this point we need to go out and
um
what we're looking at is
to put together an RF we're asking our
business manager or we're asking for
um
we're asking for an RFP to be put
together to to
um
to go ahead and retain or seek
qualifications that can help the board
not the district
retain counsel for contract negotiations
and audit consultation is that correct
is what I'm understanding yes but there
is a threshold that would have to meet
for the RFQ process there's also
yes that's that's correct
and I guess I would like to know who
who said recommend it or who said that
the board needed outside counsel
who was that to just who suggested out
retaining outside counsel for the board
not for the district but for the board
the research I've done that's that's
been suggested
different different areas
requires
um
I don't have it in front of me so I I
guess what I would do is
um I I I'd like to know
um
I hate um know that you're looking at
you've done some research I'd be curious
about the research that you've done and
um
and
just because it is new to say that the
Board needs its own Council versus the
district and I would like to know who's
going to be paying for that Council
um for the board and as I crimp actually
um would they if the board got for some
reason got sued or there was some
problem with the contract would I crimp
pay for it are we outside of our
insurance for the district are we
outside their parameters to pick up the
that help us pay for the tab for if we
if the if the board got sued so I guess
that's my question is is eye cream going
to cover this or who covers this um
outside Council that's where the board
not for the district those are some of
the questions I need to know before
approving it so if
if there needs to be I'd like to table
it till July meeting to be able to have
some of those questions answered since
it's for the board not for the district
how much is it going to potentially be
who's going to pay for it is I crimp
going to cover us if the board gets sued
those are some of the questions
so
okay
um so I guess there's some questions
there that would like to have more
research done and I'd be happy to help
with the research to sort of dig in a
little further talk to I crimp get their
feet you know talk to somebody at icremp
because they are Risk Managers they
cover if there's a they potentially if
there was a case against the district or
us under the board but if we're
operating under our
if we're operating within our parameters
of the board and our code of ethics and
and um
and code of ethics
then
hopefully we you know we would be
covered by eye crimp so I guess that's
where I'm curious the costs eye crimp on
or some of the basic questions I've got
for that one
it's policy
[Music]
1600.
it's fallacy 1600 on the website
I'm curious
can I do that if you're following
everything straighten out why do not
because the board has the right to
retain outside counsel that state
statute
individuals it has to be part of
the federal Council separate committee
um that's actually Idaho code
says it shall be the duty of each member
of the Board of Trustees and this is
Idaho code 33506
shall be the duty of each member of the
Board of Trustees to attend all meetings
both regular and special and the board
shall have the following powers and
duties and number c is to employ an
attorney or attorneys when deemed for
the best interest of the district or for
the purpose defending the district
against any suit or for bringing action
deemed necessary to be convinced by the
board and that's under our district
trustees and that's as we say chapter
five
so I that's where
um
I would as I say I would like to reach
out to I crimp and get a read from them
as our risk manager assurance
um entity all right
so do you make a motion to take one I'll
make a motion to table it till the July
monthly meeting
um and I will if if the board of other
board members approve
um I will go ahead and reach out to
icremp and get some feedback from them
on the risk management component of it
okay and I'd also like some more
information on why we would need outside
counsel when we have a council on
retainer and why we would need to do
contract negotiations
that on the record
our district can't afford anymore
[Music]
okay so I have a motion to table this
consideration and approval of pertaining
outside counsel for contract negotiation
and auto consultation
for Margate I mean I have a motion for
Margie do I have a second
I'll second that okay
um trustee Barton makes a motion for
consideration approval of retaining
outside counsel for contract negotiation
and audit consultation all those in
favor say aye aye okay
the motion carries the its table next is
discussion discussion regarding budget
Gap and potential shortfall Solutions
um I'll make a motion to bring
discussion regarding budget Gap and
potential short-term solutions to the
table
Gap and potential short-term solutions
to the table
from trustee home trustee Barton seconds
discussion
um
what um under Idaho code and that's
sorry I'm trying to what's the right
code number but
um two board members can hold a special
meeting and so what we
um I agree I don't want to speak out of
turn for trustee Barton but what we'd
like to do is bring a bring a special
meeting being a work session to do some
brainstorming about short-term Solutions
regarding the budget Gap and obviously
extracurricular co-curricular activities
um have that part of the work session
and then bring back a plan hopefully
from that work session bring it back a
plan for the full board to review and
ideally would like to do it by the July
meeting
so that as I say two board members can
hold a work session without the chair
approving it and it could be a special
meeting without the chair it would be a
work session so that a quorum would not
be needed
so I would and but if we if we notice it
it would be noticed so that if any other
board members wanted to be part of that
but it is looking at what are the
short-term solutions to to address
because I know the community has been
looking at some things potentially for
extracurricular co-curricular it and
there may be other ways that we can work
together to help with that in any other
budget gaps that there might be that we
might be able to address but and where
that we need to partner together
okay are you um
do you want to make a motion to then
have a work session is that you're
saying yeah that's what we would like to
do yes we need to make some decisions
all those in favor and um I guess just
to add that really quickly is that we
would hopefully I don't know if we could
do it next well you can't do it next
week but we would try to do it as
quickly as possible okay
okay so we'll try to figure out a time
that might be appropriate yeah okay okay
so I have them
I have a motion and a second to pull the
works word
I'll second it okay I thought Erwin okay
first and the second to
um hold a
budget Gap and potential shortfall
or short-term uh Workshop all those in
favor say aye
aye those opposed okay emotional carries
um first reading of
policies 30 30 10 30 10p
um
30 mpf and I need a motion to bring
policy first reads or first read
policies to the table
I'll make a motion to bring the policy
first reads to the table okay I have a I
have a motion to bring bursary policies
to the table by uh Vice chair Brown
you'll have a second I'll second it okay
but although I I put this on the agenda
because and I didn't have time to send
it to the policy committee I let Mr
Myers know that but this policy I put it
on the agenda because it's going to
replace
the enrollment policy which there's new
Idaho Statute that will be effective
July 1st because open enrollment is
going to change for all students in the
state of Idaho so I put the draft on
here
and apologies to the policy committee
because I just had the update last week
and I know this is going to affect July
1st so these these policies would
replace our enrollment policies that we
have and the 3010 is the overall policy
and then the 3010p is the procedures and
then the 3010f would be the form
and if if the board would allow if we
could look through these I could get we
could pull them up and I could show you
the policy and what I'm asking for
tonight would be in one of the policies
they're setting the class size limit
because a July 1st the district is
responsible for posting the number of
kids in the classrooms and then if we
determine the class sizes the board
determines the class housing
that were full then we use that as our
guide through the policy when kids if
they want to transfer in and out of
schools
so if it would be okay with your
permission to look through these tonight
and just a clarification on this I mean
it what would happen because Susie this
would be only the first read so
technically it would not be a fully
approved I mean we actually we could do
the approval that there is an expedited
approval that we used before and I'll
try I'd have to look at it where then we
had you could approve it the first time
so we'd be in effect for July 1st and
then we could go through the process of
first read second read and then
um the the curriculum or the policy
committee could look at it
um and we could potentially amend it but
we could initially approve it under one
of our policies and
yeah was it limited we did that for the
bus something related to the bus and
that way we could preliminarily but we
still had to do first and second read
correct and and I did since I didn't
have time to go through the policy
committee I did meet with the building
administrators and just went through it
there's a couple sections where the
board has to make a few decisions but um
so
if you can you make the coffee near what
the Susie has for yes because it's just
too hard is it hard for you to read up
there yeah
sure but you might pull it up so others
can see it yeah I would say I would
suggest pulling it up so people can see
it so I've got them
this and this one was online so I did no
I have time to review it and look at it
so Steffy if you start with the 3010
that's the overall
3010 f
no no just 30 10. it's at the bot I
think it's the policies the 30 the piece
our procedures the f are the forms and
they're they're actually in our board
book in reverse order okay that's why
it's because the form comes first and
then the procedure and then but 30 10 is
um
best
and
can you guys all see that
okay
so I think that this one is the
let's
if the the form can be provided there's
only one place there on that 32 3010 is
that the form can be approved by the
state department of Ed or district and
we we're supposed to pick one or the
other yes
which is and then it says the district
one must be substantially similar to the
state forms yes
and so we just said the district form
and and I went on and updated it
basically is the state form we just
changed it put our heading on it
yeah this whole
yes and this whole policy is the changed
one and the red line I didn't know how
to get that off of there when when you
write those Leonard probably does
yeah this is the new policy it's
completely different because of the new
state law of the open enrollment for all
but there are some things that are
similar but it will replace them
so if you look at application if you
scroll down a little bit Steffy
I'm not sure if this is
trying to see what our policy was to in
case my original copy too
is that I think the one that we can
adopt and then come back
so this where it says the superintendent
shall establish a procedure for
those are all listed those are updated
um
and there's in in this policy compared
to the last policy there's a lot of
steps added because of the new law so
the
districts in the district will have to
come up with forms for notifying parents
for the uh enrollment
uh the legislation number is
it may have been 33 1402 legislation but
it was the code 33 1402 but legislation
yeah
it was updated in 33 1402 so it may be
um it's listed here is 33
1402 enrollment options
but the actual house bill
um
Maureen do you need another
morning you can show that around too if
people want to see it before you
circulate it
if anybody else if somebody else wants
to look at it then they can
okay so then on 30 10 the next paragraph
student Appeals
there's a whole section here if an open
enrollment application request is denied
or revoked a parent or Guardian May
request an administrative review by the
board
the parent Guardian must request the
review within five school days of
receiving the written denial notice the
board shall consider the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting and
issue its decision in writing
okay and this this was pretty much set
up by the leg um the
the legislation yeah I think this is all
pretty much
um
I mean this was one from isba that they
went through and updated it according to
the new legislation and made sure that
they had it correct if you look at I'm
on page three of the document you you
have and it says re-enrollment
at the top of the page
and it says open enrollment students do
not need to reapply to maintain their
enrollment at the school in which
they're enrolled however the parent
Guardian shall notify the District of
their intention to re-enroll on an
annual basis no later than February 1st
and the administration there's a piece
here that's optional that says the
district will provide a form for parent
Guardians that will serve as a notice of
interest to re-enroll the administration
suggested that that be added
and basically what we'll have to do is
um
before February 1st send out a notice to
parents and they will just check
and to let us know if they're planning
on coming back to school in the fall
so it saves our seat you're welcome
this is state law because any child can
apply to attend any school in the state
of Idaho
yeah starting July 1st
within districts yeah it will mean
everybody and there will be forms I
would believe that as the board approves
this policy and the district looks at
this bill set up forms and a system so
that people who are in out of their
attendance Zone will just have to every
year update and there is guidance in the
policy about uh once a student has been
at a school for I believe two years
they're considered
a student in that school yeah yeah I
think the third year it starts being and
then the other thing is that um
the parents or guardians or the student
will need to provide their own
transportation yes yes that is correct
and neither district will I think you
can drive to a the closest bus if you
want to if somebody wants to be
um taking the bus but it's um neither
District's picking it up in another way
and then the other one that I was a
little confused on none of them that
30 10 is at the top of the page where it
says sports or it's actually the second
thing it says certain School transfers
could lead to a student being ineligible
to play at the varsity level for one
year
so that's kind of an interesting
um that's standard that's actually well
that was that was there before so yes
yes they would need to if that you know
the student is transferring in their
Varsity Sports they'll need to check the
guidelines
so that's that's 30 10 and then 30 can p
which are the open enrollment procedures
so we have a couple of choices there
yeah there are some choices
and the board would need to choose where
the administration thought it would make
sense to have them available on the
district's website
because when it goes on the website they
can also put it on each School site each
School attached on the quick link yeah
okay so if the board would be okay with
that
did that make sense
and then if you read down to the
application for district students the
board would need to select one of those
and on your copy that you're looking at
it says select one and I apologize it's
hard to see yeah it is I was going to
say so I'm gonna I'll read it for you
the the first one is
for students who reside in the district
the parent Guardians completes the Open
Enrollment application form and submits
it to the principal of their attendant
Zone home school and then the students
homeschool principal makes a
recommendation to approve it or not and
then the home school principle shall
send the form to the out of attendance
area receiving School principal or
for students who reside in the district
the parent Guardian shall complete the
Open Enrollment application form and
submit it to the principal of the school
they wish to attend
so it would be the receiving School
and it seems we have to pick select one
either the one two or
three uh one two and three are one whole
option
okay because what you're doing there is
the in this this had been the case
before a parent let's say a parent goes
to Idaho they attend Idaho they come
into me and they say I want to go to pra
so they fill out the form they give it
to me I sign it and then I take it and
then the our offices take all take care
of it give it to Lynn and then Lynn
reviews it
um the the second option parent just
decides okay I'm I want to go to pre I
should be at Idaho Hill I'm just going
to fill out the open enrollment form and
turn it into pre and then they'll go
through the process of deciding which
way did the administ the administration
said the second choice to keep that one
because
just because of all the other steps that
we yeah it cuts out yeah and it just
gets to the point so the home school
principal shall send the form to the out
of attendance area receiving school
principle
before the four students who reside in
The District Parent Garden okay yes that
was looks like it's easier it is easier
and and then that principle you'll see
in this policy will have to
review some information
okay
and then
if somebody from out of the district
comes in and claims you want to go to
our schools they get to pick what school
they go through school no they can pick
whatever school but okay but now what
happens if we
already okayed somebody from
example Idaho Hills to go to it
yeah yeah
and they're already going there now this
person comes in and that puts us over
our limits our our own student have to
go back to well there's there's policy
in here that's a good question and
that's what we're wondering now this is
all going to shake out as we live it
um
I don't know it's a very good answer
yeah I mean we'll we'll read through
this and try and live through it that's
why we want to set the class sizes
because let's say for example we're
going to say that we're not going to
have any more than 20 kids in
kindergarten and let's say we already
have 20 kids enrolled then we don't have
any open seats right now so if the
student comes in we already have that at
Idaho Hill for first grade because we
have 29 first graders we have five
people on a waiting list but we had to
tell them
we have too many anyway so we'll put you
on a waiting list we'll have to let you
know in August if anybody moves out
yes my question
is
a kid from outside the district can't
come in and bump a kid at the Glory of
Love
okay
I I don't think so I think if one's
there soon so the inter-district
transfers would have priority over an
hour yes yes
it might be suggested we gave you some
classes we'll get to that we you may
want to change that I don't know
so I think what I heard the board say
that they were okay with that second
option
okay we don't want to bump any of our
students that are already in there no or
someone that is just coming into the
district so then if you turn to the next
page page two
the application for out of District
students there's a little paragraph
there
and then decision regarding the
application there isn't there are
options that we would need for the board
to decide on the principal sends the
form to the superintendent who shall
and option A would be the superintendent
would form a team of at least three
people
to consider Oakland enrollment
applications all members of the team
must be knowledgeable about the student
the students disciplinary record the
student's attendance record the
student's disability if applicable and
then it says this change shall include
the superintendent the principal or vice
principal of the building the student
who wishes to attend and the
superintendent
option b is
designate an administrator to evaluate
the data if any and or the placement
options
after reviewing the students file the
designee has discretion to review and
accept or deny the Open Enrollment
application on a case-by-case basis and
applying the factors noted above the
administrator if possible should be
knowledgeable and or review the
applicable records concerning and then
it lists the same thing
so the administration team recommended
option b only because
they figured that this would go to the
superintendent anyway if there was any
questions and this the principal has to
be
they're involved either way so it would
be their recommendation was they could
do the screening so that the
superintendent then
doesn't have to do that but
whatever the board chooses it seems like
option b is more at this point is a less
onerous than option A because you're in
with option A you're tying up three
people
and option b is you're having one person
go through the process and I guess I
would say just because of
um right now we might want to look at it
in the future but right now I would
suggest doing option b
the superintendent has a lot as you know
to do and and the deli they'll have to
sign off on these as well
so it might save a step
because the similar people
it would be that I would well I would
assume that it would be the
administrator of the receiving School
so if if I'm getting a student that's
coming in I will contact that principal
and there's specific records we have to
ask for that are listed here yeah
because then we have to give in writing
that this policy requires us to give in
writing a statement why we wouldn't
approve
a student coming in if they have an
attendance issue chronic absenteeism we
don't have to accept them if they have
Behavior
record unless if unless it's a
IEP or 504 absolutely
well that's what Margie was saying well
the superintendent would maybe later be
involved but that's what Marty was
saying
right yeah right they wouldn't have to
do that yeah
and then we're on the bottom where it
says applications will normally be
considered on a first-come first-served
basis then this option that's in
um gray it says Idaho code does not
discuss granting priority like this
um but this is an option and the
situations here I'll read it to you
however in situations where openings are
limited and applications are received in
a similar timely fashion the
superintendent may give priority if a
student resides in the West Bonner
County district and seeks enrollment in
another District school
has a brother or sister enrolled at the
request in school has a parent Guardian
employed by the district or has a unique
situation or extraordinary circumstance
and the administration team felt like
yes we should add that option and their
reasoning was because often we hire an
employee or a teacher who lives out of
district and they would like they want
to bring their children to our district
and those are times when you would want
to do a special consideration
okay
and I think that makes sense having that
additional option
there
added okay
and then on page three it's there's just
a few corrections but
one of the things here it says parents
must I'm I'm reading down on the bottom
where it's numbered items if the request
for open enrollment is approved the
notification will inform the parents of
the following parents must provide
transportation or get student to the
nearest District bus stop if space is
available so that will probably be
important for us especially in the bay
hoodoo area because our buses are so
full okay
um parents must notify the district by
February 1st of each year regarding
their intention to re-enroll their child
under the Open Enrollment program
and so we were talking about that
thinking that maybe And the reporter
would be a good time just to send out
and check you know a sign up for parents
that open enrollment may be revoked if
the student presents issues of chronic
absenteeism commit serious disciplinary
infractions is expelled or if the
receiving School exceeds maximum
capacity with resident students within
their first two years of admission
so that kind of answers your question
yeah um if let's say I have a
kindergartner that comes to Idaho from
Priest River and then we fill up the
next year that student might have to go
back if they haven't been in the school
for two years
could
okay this is the first read so yeah and
then as we live through it we might need
to I would guess they might have to
update the law too as districts go
through this
once we approve somebody to do it and
somebody else coming in in Buffalo
you might consider adding if it's in
District keep in this the outlet
District you wouldn't bump your local
kids
it's what I think you're saying yeah
so then on page four grounds for denial
of application factors which may cause
an open enrollment application to be
denied include a school grade or program
has lack of available classroom space
and or staff such as when the current
enrollment is at or above the following
capacity limits and this is what I mean
what this would be the action item if
anything you could approve tonight so
then we know our class limits the admin
suggested for K1 classrooms no more than
20 to 21 students
even though I we have classes higher
than that but what that does is set the
max you know that we we would already
consider some classes at capacity
second and third grade same thing 2021
fourth through sixth grade would be 26
students
Susie it says 27 here does it okay
I had I have 26 so 26 27.
um
seventh through 12th grade it was 26
students in the core classrooms or they
also do a divisor 161 students per
teacher it averages out to 26 students
in a core classroom
and that one it shows on at least the
one that was posted a set of 161 160 but
the 26 on that one yeah
her teacher and English language
learners 20.
we only have one right now in our
district so you don't have to worry
about that alternative schools we don't
have an alternative right now but 12
students
and then I added on the bottom of this
combination classrooms because of our
Priest Lake Elementary School and
we really felt strongly you wouldn't
want to go more than 20 kids because
it's too great
yes I'm number four
because
um
because they addressed it in
um another spot because state law
requires that we can not
um
we cannot deny an enrollment of any
special education student
and if they're they don't meet the
requirement
s if they if they have well if they have
chronic absenteeism and that is due to
their disability
then we cannot deny them because of that
let's say if we have you know it depends
on as students students IEP or their 504
if they have Behavior record and that
isn't that is because of their
disability we cannot denied them
so they took it out
it now changes that because well they
took it out I believe I believe because
I I don't think they needed it in here
because if request the sub the title is
if the request for open enrollment is
approved the notification will inform
the appearance of the following
and so the special education that those
learners
um
did they that's already a given they're
included in all of this
they're they're included in all of these
requirements
and and the bill just for people the
bill numbers you know I'm trying to lose
it um is Senate Bill 1125 is to send
1125 is the Senate bill for this open
enrollment
and then towards the bottom on page four
because number one was the class sizes
number two is the student has been
suspended or expelled in their home
District
so that's a reason for denial
the three the student has a documented
history of repeated serious disciplinary
infractions this includes in fractions
which could be grounds for suspension or
exclusion
thank you
the student has issues of chronic
absenteeism a student is considered
chronically absent if the student is
absent 10 or more school days during the
year
and then it is determined that
information on the Open Enrollment
application has been
represented or was incomplete
and then Maureen it says here if this if
you did you see it yeah that's why they
discovered it somehow
and then on page five it talks about the
revocation of open enrollment and then
the steps that they would the district
will need to go through
can we if somebody comes to another
different District in their special
needs
can we can we request
a new evaluation
and we have to go this came up before
okay we have to rely on say standpoint
evaluation and live up to that
so let me make sure I understand what
you're asking I think what you're asking
is if a student within a repeat comes to
our district from another District or
wherever
um Can Can we reassess them or do we
have to go by their IOP
um Kim Shaner would be the one to ask
about that but I believe that we accept
their IEP we can amend their IEP if need
be and amend would be update
um it probably it would depend on when
their evaluation had happened that would
probably wouldn't do a whole evaluation
but we could amend if need be yeah
because that was that was what Kim had
said
yes
yes but if you have if you have a
student with a disability who applies
and you don't have the services at that
school and you're already at capacity at
your other school then you can deny
because you don't have any room that
would be the
so that's the procedure
and the back side of that talks about
students with disabilities
so that's the procedure document and
then the final the form document is just
this and it's very similar to the states
and ours it has all the components that
we would need
to make the law and to meet all of our
needs
um
go to a page six of the 3010p
it says students with disabilities
in in District and out of District
students with disabilities are not
treated differently from students
without disabilities with respect to
consideration for placement in the
school of their choice unless the
district has made an individual
determination that disability related
needs of a particular student with a
disability cannot be reasonably met at
the school of their choice additionally
students applying who have a 504 plan or
IEP may not be denied enrollment or have
enrollment revoked if the behavior
resulting in disciplinary action or
chronic absenteeism is a manifestation
of their disability
District as well we don't have the
services
let's say we had a blaming student who
didn't have the ability to serve it was
something that was given question yes
yes so we actually had a student
who went to the deaf school and you just
paid in the transportation for them to
get to the airport
did you have to pay for the school
itself
I don't think so I think it was just the
we did inmo because of blessing yeah
so that's that's it okay it's a lot that
you know for the district
and yeah so anyway it's a class size I I
do we need any clarification I can make
a motion and I've I've got the third um
it would be a motion based on policy
1300 to temporarily approve
the policy as we've discussed it and
then go through the process
um the first three and second read
well 1300 is the policy to suspend it it
says under 1310 on the first page
although approval of new amended or
policy requires a minimum of two
readings temporary approval may be
granted by the board in lieu of formal
policy to meet emergency conditions or
special events which take place before
formal action can be taken so I would
say that we're we make a temporary
approval as we've discussed according to
policy 1300 and then we put a first read
and a second read on the agenda for July
and maybe August
we've gone through this
if we're approving it completely
um
it could be considered a first read and
then the second read if there's some
responses back right it could I guess it
could be temporary
it it isn't I'm just giving you more
time to try to figure out if there's
things you want to look at but if this
is pretty straightforward
yeah so I would say we do a temporary
um we can always I would say let's I
would make a motion to make a temporary
approval for the full thing and have
this act as our first read we can always
add a third read so yeah if we don't
like it after the second read we can you
know there's nothing that stops us from
doing a third read yeah so I will I will
make it
um I will revise my motion or amend my
emotion to say that we approve this do a
temporary approval of um this this set
of enrollment policies
um under 1300 and this will be our first
read and
um so that it can be approved by it can
go into effect by July 1st okay so
trustee Hall makes a motion to
accept this first read and
um or not emergency but um
action as as stated
under policy 1310
1300. okay do I have a second I second
that
last year Brown seconds all those in
favor say aye aye those opposed okay the
policy is adopted okay
okay next is superintendent report
um
so we had lots of end of school Year
celebrations just as Lynn mentioned
um we had I just wanted to let the board
know we had a community safety awareness
at Idaho Hill Elementary where Life
Flight actually landed their helicopter
and then they had all different kinds of
agencies there and they had the kids
travel around in the stations so that
they could learn all different kinds of
safety kudos to Savannah Jones in the
back and Melissa Nelson and Renee gamber
because they organized all of that there
were many educational field trips going
on in the district and a number of
classes went to the spark uh Smithsonian
exhibit so that that was fun and we had
student art exhibits and then I think
Lynn mentioned the track meet that
happened with our fifth and sixth
graders Jared Hughes organizes this at
the high school and runs it like a
professional track meet for the fifth
and sixth grade kids in the district and
so it is is quite a neat thing and as
well the kids then meet each other
before they go to the junior high so
that was very successful and then there
were a number of music and dance
performances and Anne Chamberlain did
her magic with the spring performances
training kids and and Performing so lots
of fun there at Idaho Hill this at
fourth quarter we had a hundred and 115
students 72 percent of our students
reached the reading challenge
and so they took all of those kids to
Riley Creek and did a bunch of fun
activities and again the ladies in the
back were in charge of that and it was
amazing and then pre had their
attendance activity where they had you
know 110 kids qualified for attendance
for fourth quarters so those are really
great celebrations
professionally that we had an in-service
Day on June 13 and approximately 55 of
our k-6 staff and Care Professionals
attended the final class to get their
certification for dyslexia training that
the state is requiring and that was done
by Christiane Lane who is a reading
specialist from the Lee pesky Center and
she does an outstanding job the other
staff in the district they met together
and worked on their essential standards
curriculum scope and sequences and data
and then we do have summer school
planned for our high school students
that need credit recovery as well as our
special education students that need
extended school year and our summer
lunch program will be beginning next
week and then just a shout out on ISAT
some ISAT scores I just wanted to let
you know that in math we had some grade
levels that classrooms that scored above
the state average
um sixth grade at pre was above the
state average fifth grade at pre at
Idaho Hill 6th grade third grade at
Priest Lake Elementary fifth grade sixth
grade and at Priest River Junior High
seventh grade they all were above the
state average on the isap preliminary
results and then for English language
arts we had our sixth grade at Priest
River Elementary our third grade fourth
grade sixth grade at Idaho hill our
third grade fifth grade sixth
Elementary and our seventh and 8th grade
all beat the state average on the iset
this year and really good another shout
out is in science
all of the schools who took the science
test were above the state average so
that's pre Idaho Hill Priest Lake Priest
River Junior High were all above the
state average and the high school Misfit
by three points so
um just wanted to shout that out and
um shining star we had one sixth grade
class 76 percent of our students scored
proficient on the ELA so that's pretty
exciting
so
awesome Amen thank you
okay next is Treasures report
um
Steffy will you explain
but the the zeros there yes please
because I know we've gone through this
before but we'll do that can you guys
see that
on the beginning balance here it is
show zeros because the year has rolled
over on July 1st rather than June 30th
of
2022 there's no way in the accounting
system to change that rollover
our fiscal years from July 1st to June
30th and so it was a
week it's just a system and
I can provide other reports that show
the beginning balance meaning you can
also look at the ending balances as it
aligns in the audit reports and see what
that beginning balance would have been
this year so there are options but for
this specific report due to Joe's
rollover dates that is why you see a
beginning balance of zero in the
circular so clarification that's the
beginning balance as of July 1st 2022
and it's not doesn't change every month
when you run these reports
is that correct
so it's not a beginning balance for
every month it's the beginning balance
at the beginning the actual beginning of
the fiscal year
at least it shouldn't change everyone
so what other reports might be generated
that could be generated where we might
um
but we have a very robust accounting
system and
while that is amazing because we can
generate a wide variety of reports at
the the downfall is that things like
this
can happen
so I think the one thing that I was
looking at is that um Levy the
2018-2019 cash balance
um
that was seemed rather High
and I'm curious about that one
foreign
one hundred and two thousand seven seven
nine point seven two
correct so part of the reason
excuse me is going to be higher is
because in past years there were
cross fees that were transferred out or
paid out of
this fund into the student body fund
that did not occur this year
and maybe for next time I
I know there's a lot on the plate but
I'd be
curious to um
I guess all the reports that you have
given us would if I looked at those
related to that fund number would I see
I think in the last you gave us in the
last month or so
um
sort of the general journal entries
would that help me see that what's
behind that number yes okay
and there's a lot of factors that go
into
the question you're asking
thank you
and and this one is the student body
we're basically the trustees of this um
the student bodies
funds
I mean we're obviously Trustees of the
whole school district but this one is
actually under the
um
well actually more than two
connect two connection groups we have a
student body a connection group and then
the district side as part of the reason
for that is through the accounting
system that functions within them or the
capabilities
for controls are slightly different
but at the end of the year it could be
audit uh the student body gets
summarized into the district
connection and also um
so the data help is held separately but
It ultimately yeah bless you
and I have been looking into which
reports are
are best to provide the board in terms
of
these types of budget reports to give
you the information that you're seeking
to make
things
so if you have feedback on what you
would like to see or how I would like to
see it differently please don't hesitate
to advise you to be happy to
provide the report you're searching for
or multiple reports units
and then the other thing with transfers
in because I'm looking at this whole
thing for transfers in are we expecting
any transfers coming in
because that would be coming when we
correct that you would be drawing down
on certain
um
you'd be drawing down on certain
accounts
I'm looking at the negative cersa 254
would we be getting a transfer in on
that at some point
I think what you're referring to for a
transference
yes yeah
and I guess when are you thinking those
will be in in July when those come in in
July some of those
one of them should be coming in at one
of these sorts of payments should be
coming in this month but if it hasn't
already if it hasn't already then it
will be
Google probably be receiving it in July
as
this fiscal year
um is the remainder remainder of cersa
when it's drawn down by the end of this
month will be booked as a receivable so
what you see there is
actual and we will make sure that we
close up the box okay
I don't have any more questions
I don't even okay thank you all right
all right all right
um next comments from the audience
to First is uh
merely Brumley
thank you
she got ill she had to leave okay
all right uh
uh Roger Gregory
um
foreign
very nice people and thank you for your
dedication for the school board
but there is a real learning you know a
little personal there's a couple people
on the board think that many of the
citizens
are there on minded and don't know much
about the operation of students with
that in mind
my father came to Bonner County in 1980.
I was born and raised in Sandpoint
graduated from Sanford High School
University Idaho I spent five years in
the Army including one year Atwood first
Infantry Division in the Vietnam War
I've been in business for 56 years
and many people increased over our
descendants of the Italians who came
here in 1892. so there's a lot of us
that go back a long ways
basically we like to have local
importance and some degree of control of
our own school district and the
education of our children
I understand you're seriously considered
hiring Mr nurse I'm sure he's a nice
person so according to the newspaper
he's had many commands salary vehicle
stipends meals and the list goes off
say bye
go ahead and finish okay
20 seconds my business over 50 years in
business somebody that makes these kind
of demand still struggle for the future
in addition many times he'll hire an
outsider they use the position of a
stepping stone to a future larger
discipline so it may be the inner one or
three years and they're gone when you
hire a local person they will stick
around for a long period of time you
should hire Susie luck tweet for the
position she has a proven that he
dedicate a dedicated teacher friends
principal temporary superintendent and
she won't be leaving
I would thank the school boards to
always want to support the businesses
and citizens so at that time we open pay
close attention to what the majority of
locals are saying thank you for your
service sir
okay next on the Jenna's Boardman
collection do you have anything to say
this time
I guess I just want to thank just one
quick one is just I want to thank
everybody for being respectful of each
other tonight
um
from your personnel and location you
can't discuss them both in the same
exactly didn't make a motion to go into
one and you come out of it
and become a separate one and
I just wanted to remind you that policy
thank you
with that I made a motion to go into
executive session as provided for
the code
74-206 1B personal matters as provided
for an Idaho code
74-206 one F litigation are you talking
about personal matters or the Personnel
matters
it would be a violation of Idaho to
combine them
okay
um so Vice chair Brown makes a motion to
go into executive session I'll second uh
trusty Rambo make some motion in our
seconds all those in favor just to
clarify we are at this point just uh we
will be going executive session to do 74
206 1B Personnel matters at this point
oh I see okay I thought yeah no we can't
do but what she's uh what um which case
saying is
Okay so
we're both no we need to do
um so executive session has provided the
motion should be
um to go into executive session as
provided for in Idaho code 74206 1B
Personnel matters and then we'll have to
come out and make a dis um do a
potential action or non-action and then
go in for the second one
that's an amended motion it's an
amendment amended motion okay
um
that's the first and the second roll
call please
um trusty bargain here trusty Hall here
Vice chair Brown here
uh
um
trusting rival here and uh chairman
Rutledge here
okay we're going into the second session
[Music]
um
thank you
I'm not sure about this one